So here's the output file,
and as you can see from the scroll indicator on the right-hand side,
actually we have lots of information.
It's such a small program but the information,
it's abundant to say the least.
In order for us to make life easy,
we can simply look at the heap summary,
and this can be done by searching the text file for heap summary.
This is actually the place where we want to look at.
This is the total usage of memory and the number of blocks,
and also the heap usage,
and we can also take a look at the leak summary, which is here.
The leak summary tells us how much memory is definitely lost,
indirectly lost, possibly lost,
still reachable, and suppressed.
To limit the scope of this very small tutorial here,
I only want to look at the memory leaks,
which are definitely lost in the program.
I'm going to move down this window a little bit and as you can see here,
and we have created a block of memory on the heap consisting of the size of 10 integers.
One integer takes four bytes of memory.
Then obviously, 10 integers to take up a size of 40 bytes of memory,
and this is exactly the size in one block in one contiguous block of memory,
which has been found by Valgrind to be definitely lost.
So by using Valgrind and by ignoring all the output around this leak summary here,
we can say, "Okay, we have a memory leak."
We can tell the size of the memory leak
and because we know where to find the memory leak,
we can also scan for this size here in the text file.
Simply copy it and look for it.
As you can see here,
the 40 bytes in one block are definitely lost
in main memory leaks debugging cpp at line 5,
and this is exactly this position here.
So here's where the delete is missing.
We instantiate this variable here,
allocate the memory on the heap.
Don't delete it and Valgrind tells us
exactly the position where the delete should have happened. Okay, that's it.
The very short intro into Valgrind as a debugging tool for finding memory leaks.
It's only an indicator for you to know that there are such tools out there,
and if you have a program which slows down
over time which uses up a huge amount of memory and you don't know why,
you could use such tools to quickly on automatically search
for potential memory leaks where a proper deallocation has not been performed.
But as this is a tutorial or a course on memory management,
and we are looking at modern C plus plus,
we will encounter later in the tutorial smart pointers
which actually are designed for preventing such memory leaks.
So those memory leaks,
especially when using new and delete,
they will not happen when you use smart pointers.
But nonetheless, some memory leaks still can
happen with smart pointers as well as we will soon see.
But for now, let's continue with the section here.